**Chemical Inventory & Dilution Documentation System**

**Project Problem Statement**

Laboratories which maintain large inventories of chemical standards, both neat
(pure), as mixtures and dilutions of either, require a means of tracking said
standards. Tracking includes the collecting data normally associated with any
inventory system. In addition, data on the use of each standard such as its
dilutions and their calculations (the math) must also be tracked. This could be
for internal use or for outside entities such as accreditation organizations and
auditors.

There are many challenges involved. Most chemicals have many names, both common
(trivial), trade names (brand/trademark) and by miscellaneous scientific naming
systems. In addition there are non-standardize abbreviations for all systems.
The source of chemical constants and other physical data must also be
documented. Different classes of chemical work with different units such as
volume to volume and weight to volume. Working with gases may require recording
of ambient temperature and atmospheric pressure. Calculations with gases are
also non-intuitive and likely to confuse non-technical people.

Other challenges involve tracking of expiration dates of the parent standard.
Standards are very expensive and may be difficult or impossible to replace.
Disposal of hazardous or controlled standards my need to be tracked as well.

Traditionally, tracking the use of standards involved manually transcribing data
onto paper, spreadsheets or word processor documents with no standardized
system. This is tedious and prone to mistakes. Paper is archaic, but is likely
required by accreditation agencies and auditors. Spreadsheets and other office
software also suffer from transcription issues, format standardization, are
likely not secure and create storage issues.

The Chemical Inventory & Dilution Documentation System will allow entry of
unique chemicals and some of their physical constants. Web API’s will assist in
verification of uniqueness as well as any stored data. Stored information may be
used by the Dilution Documentation (spreadsheet) portion with Web API’s used to
assist in collecting necessary physical data and their sources. This could
include weather data for standard calculations that knowledge of temperature and
pressure.

The “spreadsheet” with the results may then be download and saved.
